Denison’s pioneering major in data analytics provides students with a solid core of math and computer science, followed by four specially designed data analytics courses. Most of these courses are project-based, employing analytic methods, as well as skills specific to data analytics, ethics, and interdisciplinary research skills practiced in a variety of application domains.

In addition, students will hold a summer internship, in which they will take the skills learned in the classroom and practice them in a professional setting, and then present a capstone project informed by their internship experience. Denison’s proximity to Columbus will give students access to world class corporations and organizations in fields as diverse as marketing and communications, product development, public health, community development, and banking and finance.

The major has four components:

Four classes in total of mathematics and computer science. Calculus and statistics, as well as two computer science classes are an essential platform for the technical side of data analytics.
Three classes of interdisciplinary work – this is the area of inquiry that the student feels most drawn to work in. Students will do a capstone project in this field.
Four specially designed data analytics courses. Three of these are project-based, employing both analytic methods and liberal arts skills. Students will learn communications skills specific to data analytics, ethics, and interdisciplinary research, practiced in a variety of application domains.
A summer internship. Students will practice what they have learned in a professional setting and then complete a capstone project informed by their internship experience.
Students who graduate with a data analytics major will be thoroughly versed in the technical knowledge necessary to work with quantitative and qualitative data; they will possess expertise in their field, through study and real-world problem solving; and they will have ready-made networks in their field through coursework and the required internship. They will be prepared to launch into the professions of their choice, ready to advance policy, do ethical research and to make a difference in the world.