The Sociology Department Learning Goals and Objectives
Sociology majors graduating from Lehman College should be able to demonstrate knowledge of the following five learning goals and the related objectives:
GOAL I: the core sociological concepts, such that the student will be able to (core knowledge):
Learning Objectives
i. compare and contrast a sociological perspective with other scientific perspectives
ii. identify the contributions of key figures and events to the historical development of sociology as a scientific discipline
iii. identify, define, distinguish and illustrate core sociological concepts (society; social structure; culture; religion; social institutions, e.g., family, economy; social change; social class; status; race; ethnicity; gender; social conflict; deviance; etc.)
GOAL II: the role of theory in sociology, such that the student will be able to (theory):
Learning Objectives
i. define theory and describe its role in building sociological knowledge
ii. identify, describe and compare the major theoretical paradigms (functionalism, conflict, symbolic interactionism, positivisim, feminism etc.)
iii. distinguish middle-range theory from theoretical paradigm and describe applications of middle-range theories in the study of specific social institutions and processes
GOAL III: the use of empirical evidence in sociology, such that the student will be able to (research):
Learning Objectives
i. propose a research design to answer sociological questions or test hypotheses
ii. describe, compare and contrast some of the basic quantitative and qualitative methodological approaches employed to gather social science data e.g., sampling, survey, observation, experiments, interview, secondary data analysis, etc.
iii. implement methods of social data collection
iv. calculate and interpret descriptive and inferential statistics
v. summarize the content of qualitative data
vi. describe and apply the principles of ethical practice required in social research
GOAL IV: the role of computers, internet resources and libraries in sociological research, so that the student will be able to (information and technological literacy):
Learning Objectives
i. access original and peer-reviewed published sociological research and data
ii. distinguish credible peer-reviewed published sociological research and knowledge from other information
iii. use standard computer software for basic data analyses
iv. use word-processing and other software to produce sociological reports
GOAL V: the strategies for communicating sociological research and arguments, such that the student will be able to (communication literacy):
Learning Objectives
i. document writing with ASA style citations and bibliographies
ii. write a complete account of a social event, topic, issue or problem using sociological concepts, arguments or theories
iii. review and critically assess published research papers
iv. write annotated bibliographies
v. write a sociological literature review
vi. write up a complete research proposal designed to answer sociological questions or test hypotheses