The BA in Sociology online degree prepares students to adapt and succeed in career paths shaped by rapid social change and an increasingly global, technology-driven labor market.  Students in the program develop the research and communication skills they need to address challenges posed by their changing and culturally diverse social worlds. They develop the creative, critical thinking, research, problem-solving, and communication skills required to resolve social problems and issues in their communities, organizations, and the broader society.

Students in the program:

Frame questions and analyze data.
Examine global and local inequalities and their impact on human lives.
Explain the effects of immigration and demographic transitions on social institutions. 
Provide explanations for enduring and transient patterns of inequality.
Write a clear and concise sociological analysis. 
For More Information About This Program

Please contact Holli Broadfoot at Holli.Broadfoot@cuny.edu.

Career Prospects

The BA in Sociology degree prepares students for graduate or law school and for careers in a variety of settings and fields:

Human Resources research and administration
Health and Human Services research and management
Criminal Justice, law enforcement, and corrections
Education & Training, teaching, and administrative support services
Marketing, marketing research, and sales
Arts Organizations research, development, and administration
Government and demographic research
Social Policy analysis and advocacy
Organizational Analysis and community building
Articulation Agreements

Articulation agreements are formal agreements between CUNY SPS and two-year colleges and universities, allowing students to transfer the maximum number of credits with ease to our BA in Sociology program from institutions with which we have an established transfer process in place.

Kingsborough Community College - A.A. in Liberal Arts (PDF)

Admissions Criteria


 